
# Data Science and AI Assignments

This repository contains a collection of data science and AI assignments



## Assignment 1
This lab analyzed GDP per capita and life expectancy datasets using Python. We drew a scatter plot and answered questions about the data, exploring the relationship between strong economies and high life expectancy. The insights obtained is used to develop interesting visualizations and draw meaningful conclusions.
## Assignment 2
This assignment involved analyzing two datasets. The first dataset contains information about selling prices of villas in Landvetter, and the task was to find a linear regression model relating living area to selling price, predict selling prices for specific living areas, and draw a residual plot. The second dataset is the Iris dataset, and the task was to use a confusion matrix to evaluate the use of logistic regression to classify the dataset and use k-nearest neighbors to classify the dataset with different values for k, and compare the classification models generated by k-nearest neighbors and logistic regression.
## Assignment 3
This assignment focuses on analyzing the main conformation of proteins using phi and psi angle combinations. The data file contains a list of phi and psi combinations, and K-means clustering and DBSCAN methods are used to cluster the data. The distribution of phi and psi combinations is visualized using a scatter plot and 2D histogram. The appropriate value of K is suggested and motivated. The clusters found by DBSCAN and K-means are compared, and outliers are identified. The amino acid residue types are analyzed, and the clusters for the amino acid residue type PRO are investigated.
## Assignment 4
In this assignment, we used the Naïve Bayes algorithm to analyze data using the scikit-learn library. Naïve Bayes is a probabilistic machine learning algorithm that is commonly used for classification problems. Scikit-learn is a popular Python library for machine learning that provides various tools and algorithms for data analysis. By combining Naïve Bayes with scikit-learn, I learned to classify data efficiently and accurately.
## Assignment 5
This assignment covers reinforcement learning, a type of decision-making under uncertainty. It introduces Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) for decision making under no uncertainty, followed by Q-learning for unknown MDPs. The exploration-exploitation trade-off is discussed, along with an example. The assignment concludes with questions on the differences between reinforcement learning and supervised learning and on decision trees and random forests.
## Assignment 6
Soon...
## Assignment 7
Soon...
## Assignment 8
